---
title: 29c3ctf web100 regexdb writeup
author: aay
layout: post
permalink: /29c3ctf-regexdb/
categories:
  - CTF
  - writeup
---
## Problem Link: [regexdb][1]

    **Description**
    
    Ever played Googlewhack? Well, this is a bit [easier][2] and gives you more power, enjoy.
    

## Quote From google shared doc:

    题目给的提示是googlewhack，这个的意思就是查询时仅返回一条结果。
    
    首先经过测试，所有的输入要在--之间。  
    比如:输入 -- 返回结果是 18 .
    
    输入 - . - 返回结果是： results: 1: 29C3_NotAKey
    

## Some useful information:

    Query language “analysis” (Jay):
    
    \- . is single character
    \- * is wildcard
    \-  | is OR operator
    \-  ^ is BEGINNING OF STRING operator
    

## Examples

    ** - 18 results (total in db)
    *29C3* - 12 results
    *^29C3* - 6 results
    *.{40}* - 3 results (all results which are 40 chars long)
    **!!This is a perl regular expression engine!!**
    

First step is to sort all the 18 result by length, use a simple script to help.

`wget -q -O - --post-data="input=-$1-" "http://94.45.252.233/" | grep Results`

Using the regex : `^.{$length}$` to seperate all the input data.

Then we can got almost all the wrong answers:

<pre>29C3_
Key: None
Key: 29C3_
29C3_Wrong
Hello World!
29C3_NoBadOne
29C3_____NO_____
Wrong: 29C3_Wrong
K3y: 29C3_AlsoBad
29C3_ImSimplyWrong
23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23
This one is unrelated...
Key: 29C3_AnotherOneWhichIsWrong
29C3_NotAKey &lt;- this one is not a key
42 42 42 42 42 42 42 42 42 42 42 42 42 42
Key: 29C3_??        length 40
Key: 29C3_??        length 40
</pre>

Then we know the answer is one of the last 2 key.

(after got the flag,we know that they are both the keys)

Construct the regex expression `^.{$left}[$query_set].{$right}$`

Here we need $left+$right equal to 39 and find the unique $query_set,then it&#8217;s the answer.

We can simply use escape grammar to do this. It does not support [a-zA-Z] grammar,

so we have to write all the query characters.

Starts from `$query="\1\2...\7f"`,check the result wether include character &#8217;2&#8242;

Binary search here is a better choice.

After all above, we got the answer:

`Key: 29C3_Well.This/Is#Not+The|Wrong?Key`

 [1]: https://29c3ctf.aachen.ccc.de/challenges/16/